.TH RIVERCARRO 1 2022-04-23 sr.ht/~novakane/rivercarro
.
.SH NAME
.B rivercarro
\- tiled layout generator for
.BR river (1)
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY rivercarro
.OP \-inner\-gaps
.OP \-outer\-gaps
.OP \-main\-location
.OP \-main\-count
.OP \-main\-ratio
.OP \-width\-ratio
.YS
.
.SY rivercarro
.OP \-no\-smart\-gaps
.YS
.
.SY rivercarro
.OP \-h
.OP \-version
.YS
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rivercarro
is a fork of
.BR rivertile (1)
layout generator for
.BR river (1).
.P
It provides a simple tiled layout with split main/secondary stacks. The
initial state may be configured with various options passed on startup. Some
values may additionally be modified while rivercarro is running with the
help of
.BR riverctl (1).
.P
In addition to
.BR rivertile (1),
.B rivercarro
provides:
.P
.EX
\(bu Monocle layout, views will takes all the usable area on the screen.
\(bu Gaps instead of padding around views or layout area.
\(bu Modify gaps size at runtime.
\(bu Smart gaps, if there is only one view, gaps will be disable.
\(bu Limit the width of the usable area of the screen.
.EE
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Print a help message and exit.
.TP
.B \-version
Print the version number and exit.
.TP
.B \-no\-smart\-gaps
Disable smart gaps.
.TP
.BI \-inner-gaps\  pixels
Set the initial gaps around views in pixels.
.IP
\(bu Default: 6
.TP
.BI \-outer\-gaps\  pixels
Set the initial gaps around the edge of the layout area in pixels.
.IP
\(bu Default: 6
.TP
.BI \-main\-location\  top|bottom|left|right|monocle
Set the initial location of the main area in the layout.
.IP
\(bu Default: left
.TP
.BI \-main\-count\  count
Set the initial number of views in the main area of the layout.
.IP
\(bu Default: 1
.TP
.BI \-main\-ratio\  ratio
Set the initial ratio of the main area to total layout area. The
.I ratio
must be between 0.1 and 0.9, inclusive.
.IP
\(bu Default: 0.6
.TP
.BI \-width\-ratio\  ratio
Set the initial ratio of the width of the usable area of the screen. The
.I ratio
must be between 0.1 and 1.0, inclusive.
.IP
\(bu Default: 1.0
.
.SH COMMANDS
These commands may be sent to rivercarro at
.B runtime
with the help of
.BR riverctl (1).
.TP
.BI inner\-gaps\  pixels
Set the gaps around views in pixels. If
.I pixels
is prefixed by a +/- sign,
.I pixels
is added/subtracted from the current value. If there is no sign, inner-gaps
is set to
.IR pixels .
.IP
\(bu Default: 6
.TP
.BI outer\-gaps\  pixels
Set the gaps around the edge of the layout area in pixels. If
.I pixels
is prefixed by a +/- sign,
.I pixels
is added/subtracted from the current value. If there is no sign, outer-gaps
is set to
.IR pixels .
.IP
\(bu Default: 6
.TP
.BI gaps\  pixels
Set the both inner and outer gaps in pixels. If
.I pixels
is prefixed by a +/- sign,
.I pixels
is added/subtracted from the current value. If there is no sign,
[iner|outer]-gaps is set to
.IR pixels .
.TP
.BI main\-location\  top|bottom|left|right|monocle
Set the location of the main area in the layout.
.TP
.BI main\-location\-cycle\  list
Comma separated list of locations to cycle through.
.TP
.BI main\-count\  value
Set or modify the number of views in the main area of the layout. If
.I value
is prefixed by a +/- sign,
.I value
is added/subtracted from the current count. If there is no sign, the main
count is set to
.IR value .
.TP
.BI main\-ratio\  value
Set or modify the ratio of the main area to total layout area. If
.I value
is prefixed by a +/- sign,
.I value
is added/subtracted from the current ratio. If there is no sign, the main
ratio is set to
.IR value .
.IP
Note that the ratio will always be clamped to the range 0.1 to 0.9.
.TP
.BI width\-ratio\  value
Set or modify the ratio of the the width of the usable area of the screen. If
.I value
is prefixed by a +/- sign,
.I value
is
added/subtracted from the current ratio. If there is no sign, the width
ratio is set to
.IR value .
.IP
Note that the ratio will always be clamped to the range 0.1 to 1.0.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.P
Start
.B rivercarro
with outer gaps of 4 pixels and the top main location:
.P
.RS 4
rivercarro \-outer\-gaps 4 \-main\-location top
.P
.RE
Increase the main ratio by 0.1 at runtime:
.P
.RS 4
riverctl send\-layout\-cmd rivercarro "main\-ratio +0.1"
.P
.RE
Set the main count to 3 at runtime:
.P
.RS 4
riverctl send\-layout\-cmd rivercarro "main\-count 3"
.P
.RE
Set the width ratio at 70% at runtime:
.P
.RS 4
riverctl send\-layout\-cmd rivercarro "width\-ratio 0.7"
.P
.RE
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.P
.al
.nh
.BR river (1),
.BR riverctl (1),
.BR rivertile (1)
.
